Verizon OpenOMCI

The Optical Network Terminal (ONT) Management and Control Interface (OMCI) has been the preferred method of Passive Optical Network (PON) management since the earliest deployed PON systems. In 2010, the ITU-T replaced the B-PON and G-PON specific OMCI specifications (G.983.2 and G.984.4, respectively) with a unified ITU-T Recommendation G.988, which is applicable to the existing PON systems and is designed to be extensible in principle to the new PON systems.

The ITU-T Recommendation G.988 specifies the managed entities of a protocol-independent management information base (MIB) that models the exchange of information between OLT and ONT in a PON-based access network.  It also addresses the ONT management and control channel (OMCC) setup, protocol and message formats. Still G.988 by itself is not sufficient for successful interoperability between OLT and ONT vendors. Traditionally applied in a single vendor environment, G.988 defines a number of options that are left for vendor preference and allows substantial vendor freedom in specifying proprietary managed entities, attributes and methods within what has been known as “vendor-specific” code point space. It also leaves out the specification of high-scale sequencing of action in provisioning of complex services. These traits effectively encourage single-vendor non-interoperable environments.

In the G-PON context, some fundamental OMCI interoperability work was performed by the FSAN’s OMCI interoperability study group (OISG, has been defunct for several years). This work resulted in an OMCI Implementers’ Guide, presently incorporated into G.988 as informative Appendices I and II. In addition, FSAN and the Broadband Forum (BBF) have established the G-PON interoperability testing program (based on TR-255, G-PON Interoperability Test plan) that is centered on a subset of L2 services, as specified in BBF’s TR-156. Within that service scope the TR-255 testing has allowed to demonstrate interoperability between selected vendors, achieved through modification and adaptation of the existing systems by means of vendor-specific MIB and code extensions.
